Now that we learned about the core building blocks,
let me make one comparison which is sometimes made and which is kind of wrong,
single page applications and progressive web apps.
Now in case you don't know, single page applications are applications, web applications powered by Javascript,
typically created with a framework like React, Angular or Vue where the framework re-renders the
DOM all the time to react to user input, to display different pages whilst
you only have one single page, one HTML file. Single page applications are not the same as progressive
web apps and actually, progressive web apps
as I mentioned is just a collection of technologies and techniques and it runs totally independent
of your app being a single page application or not.
You can turn any single page application into a progressive web app and the same is true for any traditional
multi-page application where you render your views from your server
via Node,
PHP, whatever it is.
So this is the wrong comparison,
a single page application is powered by Javascript,
as I said typically using a framework,
it is highly reactive because things happen instantly because we don't send a request to the server
and wait for a new page
and as I said, we only have that single page.
A progressive web app is just a collection of technologies, can be used anywhere,
it typically also uses a lot of Javascript because the service worker for example uses Javascript and
the service worker is very important
but the service worker isn't controlled by any framework anyways, so the Javascript used here can be vanilla
Javascript without a framework. And actually
in the course project, we'll use a project which just uses vanilla Javascript and multiple pages because
I wanted to show the most flexible project I can to really show you that what you learn in this course
can be used in any project, no matter if that's a single page app or not.
Towards the end of the course, I have a module where I show you how to turn your React, Angular or Vue
app into a progressive web app
but for the majority of the course, I just show you code which just works in any project, no matter if
single page or a multi-page. Now progressive web app still also aims to be highly reactive
you could say but here, we're focusing more on the initial loading time.
We want to get something onto the screen fast, for example by caching it, by even making it available
offline.
It's not so much about what happens thereafter, of course
there are some things we want to use like animations to provide a nice user experience but we don't
care if you load new pages for every request or if you use Javascript to re-render the page. Oftentimes
you will see single page applications being progressive web apps as well
but as I mentioned, that's no hard requirement.
And finally as I just said, progressive web apps can work with multiple files too
and actually that's not that uncommon,
you can absolutely use a progressive web app anywhere, you can turn any web page into a progressive web
app if you want to.
So that's the wrong comparison, we can use the progressive web app concept on a single page application but
we can also use it on any other application.